.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Ashlen <eurydice@riseup.net>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 9, 2023
.Dt DMENUUNICODE 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm dmenuunicode
.Nd display emoji and copy selection to clipboard
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm dmenuunicode
.Op Fl hn
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
parses files
in
.Xr emoji 5
format. It sends the results to
.Xr dmenu 1
to create a dynamic menu. In this menu, a list of emoji and associated keywords
are displayed, and the user may type in one or more keywords to narrow down the
available entries to those that match the query.
.Pp
Selecting a
desired entry and pressing
.Aq ENTER
causes
.Nm
to send the corresponding emoji to
.Xr xclip 1
so that it may be pasted. The entry must start with an emoji followed by
a space or tab character, otherwise it will be rejected instead.
.Pp
.Aq ESC
may be pressed at any time after the menu is displayed and before
.Aq ENTER
would be pressed to terminate
.Nm
instead.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print basic usage information and exit.
.It Fl n
Send a desktop notification with notify-send right before the program would
successfully exit. This is to provide visual feedback.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag width Ds -compact
.It Pa ~/.cache/wal/colors
A file created by Pywal that is parsed by
.Nm
when available, so that
.Xr dmenu 1
can use appropriate colors.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To use
.Pa ~/.local/share/emoji
as the
.Xr emoji 5
file and display a desktop notification on success:
.Pp
.Dl $ dmenuunicode -n ~/.local/share/emoji
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dmenu 1 ,
.Xr xclip 1 ,
.Xr emoji 5
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/dylanaraps/pywal "Pywal"
.Sh AUTHORS
This version is written and maintained by
.An Ashlen Aq Mt dev@anthes.is ,
and was inspired by a shell script of the same name that
.An Luke Smith Aq Mt luke@lukesmith.xyz
wrote.
