.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Ashlen <eurydice@riseup.net>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.Dd December 26, 2022
.Dt GENERATE-COMPLETIONS 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm generate-completions
.Nd create ksh completion output from input
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm generate-completions
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a text filter that reads from STDIN. It parses and converts input from given
formats to output that
.Xr ksh 1
can interpret and use to create tab completions.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print basic usage information and exit.
.It Fl t Ar type
Select what type of input
.Nm
will parse and create output for. Current types are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm man
Expects lines in the format that
.Xr apropos 1
creates.
.El
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To create tab completion output for man pages from
.Xr apropos 1
output:
.Pp
.\" Not sure why this needs to be escaped. I'll figure it out later.
.Dl $ apropos\ . | generate-completions -t man
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apropos 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Written and maintained by
.An Ashlen Aq Mt eurydice@riseup.net .
